---
layout:     post
title:      "Xarray 0.10 release"
subtitle:   "New features, performance improvements, and a few bug fixes"
date:       2017-10-31 12:00:00
author:     "Joe Hamman"
---

The first release candidate of Xarray v0.10 was released today. The release
includes more than five months of work and contributions from more than 28
contributors, many of whom are part of the Pangeo community.

The release includes numerous new features, performance improvements, and bug fixes.
Full details of the release can be found in the [Xarray documentation](http://xarray.pydata.org/en/v0.10.0rc1/whats-new.html).

### Release Highlights:

- Indexing now supports broadcasting over dimensions, similar to NumPy’s
  vectorized indexing (but better!).
- `resample()` has a new groupby-like API like pandas. Of particular note, Xarray's
  resample tools now also support up- and down-sampling.
- `apply_ufunc()` facilitates wrapping and parallelizing functions written for
  NumPy arrays.
- Performance improvements, particularly for `dask` and `open_mfdataset()`.

We're excited for the Pangeo community to test out this release candidate and
encourage users to report any [issues on GitHub](https://github.com/pydata/xarray/issues).
If all goes well, the final v0.10.0 release will come out in about a week.

To install, use:

    pip install --pre --upgrade --upgrade-strategy=only-if-needed xarray

### Part of Pangeo's Roadmap

This is the first release of Xarray since the
[NSF funded Pangeo project]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link _posts/2017-10-29-announcing-Pangeo-Earthcube-award.md %})
began. While the development work that contributed to this release was by no
means done entirely by Pangeo members, it does address two of the key Xarray
development objectives described in the [Pangeo project description](https://figshare.com/articles/Pangeo_NSF_Earthcube_Proposal/5361094):
1) improvements of distributed computing and efficiency with `dask`, and 2)
enhancement of current Xarray tools for applying arbitrary functions on Xarray/dask
objects.
